h1. castoro-gateway

h2. Install

<pre>
gem install castoro-gateway-X.X.X.gem
</pre>

h2. Command (related to gateway)

It is a subcommand of castoro-gateway as follows.

h3. castoro-gateway setup

Create necessary configuration file by command for the gateway.
See below Usage.

<pre>
$ castoro-gateway setup --help
Usage: castoro-gateway setup [options]
    -v, --verbose                    verbose
    -f, --force                      Override config file
    -c, --conf <configfile>          Config file
    -t, --type <gateway type>        Gateway type, [original(default) master island]
</pre>

h3. castoro-gateway start

Command for starting up the castoro-gateway program.
See below Usage.

<pre>
$ castoro-gateway start --help
Usage: castoro-gateway start [options]
    -v, --verbose                    verbose
    -d, --daemon                     daemon mode
    -p, --pid <pidfile>              PID file (only for the daemon mode)
    -l, --log <logfile>              Log file (only for the daemon mode)
    -c, --conf <configfile>          Config file
    -e, --env <environment>          Execution environment
</pre>

h3. castoro-gateway stop

Command for stopping the castoro-gateway daemon program.
See below Usage.

<pre>
$ castoro-gateway stop --help
Usage: castoro-gateway stop [options]
    -v, --verbose                    verbose
    -f, --force                      force shutdown
    -p, --pid <pidfile>              PID file
</pre>

h3. castoro-gateway status

Command for displays the status of running gateway program.
See below Usage.

<pre>
$ castoro-gateway status
CACHE_EXPIRE            : 15
CACHE_REQUESTS          : 0
CACHE_HITS              : 0
CACHE_COUNT_CLEAR       : 0
CACHE_ALLOCATE_PAGES    : 15
CACHE_FREE_PAGES        : 15
CACHE_ACTIVE_PAGES      : 0
CACHE_HAVE_STATUS_PEERS : 0
CACHE_ACTIVE_PEERS      : 0
CACHE_READABLE_PEERS    : 0
</pre>

h3. castoro-gateway dump

Command for displays the cache dumped records.
See below Usage.

<pre>
$ castoro-gateway dump
  peer0: /expdsk/1/baskets/a/1.1.3
  peer1: /expdsk/1/baskets/a/1.1.3
  peer2: /expdsk/1/baskets/a/1.1.3
   ...
   ...
  peer1: /expdsk/1/baskets/a/9.1.1
  peer2: /expdsk/2/baskets/a/9.1.1
</pre>

h3. castoro-gateway purge

Command for removed specified peer from cached-data.
See below Usage.

<pre>
$ castoro-gateway purge peer1 peer2
*** Purge Castoro::Gateway...
--- purge completed
      peer1 - 1000 baskets.
      peer2 - 1000 baskets.
*** done.
</pre>

h2. init.d script sample.

/etc/init.d/castoro-gatewayd

<pre>
#!/bin/sh
# castoro-gateway start/stop script.
# chkconfig: - 85 15
# description: castoro-gateway start/stop script.
. /etc/rc.d/init.d/functions

prog=castoro-gatewayd

base=/usr/local/bin/castoro-gateway
cnf=/etc/castoro/gateway.conf
pid=/var/castoro/gateway.pid
log=/var/castoro/gateway.log
env=default

start() {
  echo $"Start Castoro-Gateway ..."
  $base start -c $cnf -p $pid -l $log -e $env -d
}

stop() {
  echo $"Stop Castoro-Gateway ..."
  $base stop -p $pid
}

case "$1" in
  start)
    start
    ;;
  stop)
    stop
    ;;
  restart)
    stop
    start
    ;;
  status)
    status -p $pid $prog
    ;;
  *)
    echo $"Usage: $prog {start|stop|restart|status}"
esac
</pre>

h2. gateway config file details.

Config file is based on the YAML format.

h3. example

<pre>
<% require 'logger' %>
---
default:
  require: []
  logger: " Proc.new { |logfile| Logger.new(logfile) } "
  user: castoro
  group:
  workers: 5
  loglevel: <%= Logger::INFO %>
  type: original
  gateway_console_tcpport: 30110
  gateway_comm_udpport: 30111
  gateway_learning_udpport_multicast: 30109
  gateway_watchdog_udpport_multicast: 30113
  gateway_watchdog_logging: false
  gateway_comm_ipaddr_multicast: 239.192.1.1
  gateway_comm_device_multicast: eth0
  peer_comm_udpport_multicast: 30112
  peer_comm_ipaddr_multicast: 239.192.1.1
  peer_comm_device_multicast: eth0
  cache:
    class:
    replication_count: 3
    watchdog_limit: 15
    return_peer_number: 5
    cache_size: 500000
    basket_basedir: /expdsk
    options: {}
    basket_keyconverter:
      Dec40Seq: 0-65535
      Hex64Seq: ""
</pre>

h3. configuration key details.

h4. require

Describe the require library when you start to Gateway.

h4. logger

String that can be evaluated by eval,
Proc object that returns Logger.

h4. user

Effective user for gateway program.

h4. group

Effective group for gateway program.

h4. workers

count of worker processes.

h4. loglevel

logger level. must set to be between 0 and 5.
It conforms to the enumeration value of Logger::Severity.

h4. type

"original", "master", "island" either.

h4. gateway_console_tcpport

TCP Port number for console.
for original and island.

h4. gateway_comm_udpport

UDP Port number for unicast. (Client to Gateway)
for original and master.

h4. gateway_learning_udpport_multicast

UDP Port number for multicast. (Peer to Gateway, and Island to Master)
for original, master, and island.

h4. gateway_watchdog_udpport_multicast

UDP Port number for watchdog. (Peer to Gateway)
for original and island.

h4. gateway_watchdog_logging

When true, watchdog packet logging.
for original and island.

h4. gateway_comm_ipaddr_multicast

Address for multicast. (Peer to Gateway)
for original and island.

h4. gateway_comm_device_multicast

Network interface name for gateway_comm_ipaddr_multicast.
for original and island.

h4. peer_comm_udpport_multicast

UDP Port number for multicast. (Gateway to Peer)
for original and island.

h4. peer_comm_ipaddr_multicast

Address for multicast. (Gateway to Peer)
for original and island.

h4. peer_comm_device_multicast

Network interface name for peer_comm_ipaddr_multicast.
for original and island.

h4. master_comm_ipaddr_multicast

Multicast address for master-gateway.
for master and island.

h4. island_comm_udpport_broadcast

Port number for island broadcast.
for master and island.

h4. island_comm_ipaddr_multicast

Multicast address for island.
for island.

h4. island_comm_device_multicast

Network interface name for island_comm_ipaddr_multicast.
for master and island.

h4. cache => class

name of gateway-cache plugin.

h4. cache => replication_count

count of peer replication.

h4. cache => watchdog_limit

Timeout second for watchdog.

h4. cache => return_peer_number

Count of peer hostname per return.

h4. cache => cache_size

Cache size. (Bytes)

h4. cache => basket_basedir

Basket stored base directory.

h4. cache => options

Initialization arguments when creating a cache.

h4. cache => basket_keyconverter

Resolve configurations for Basket to Path.

h3. configurations key list

|key|value-type|original|master|island|default|
|require|Array[String]|required|required|required|[]|
|logger|String|required|required|required|<code>" Proc.new { |logfile| Logger.new(logfile) } "</code>|
|user|String/Integer|required|required|required|castoro|
|group|String/Integer|||||
|workers|Integer|required|required|required|5|
|loglevel|Integer|required|required|required|1 (Logger::INFO)|
|type|String|required|required|required|original|
|gateway_console_tcpport|Integer|required||required|30110|
|gateway_comm_udpport|Integer|required|required||30111|
|gateway_learning_udpport_multicast|Integer|required|required|required|30109|
|gateway_watchdog_udpport_multicast|Integer|required||required|30113|
|gateway_watchdog_logging|Boolean|required||required|false|
|gateway_comm_ipaddr_multicast|String|required||required|239.192.1.1|
|gateway_comm_device_multicast|String|required||required|eth0|
|peer_comm_udpport_multicast|Integer|required||required|30112|
|peer_comm_ipaddr_multicast|String|required||required|239.192.1.1|
|peer_comm_device_multicast|String|required||required|eth0|
|master_comm_ipaddr_multicast|String||required|required|239.192.254.254|
|island_comm_udpport_broadcast|Integer||required|required|30108|
|island_comm_ipaddr_multicast|String|||required||
|island_comm_device_multicast|String||required|required|eth0|
|cache / class|String|required||required||
|cache / replication_count|Integer|required||required|3|
|cache / watchdog_limit|Integer|required||required|15|
|cache / return_peer_number|Integer|required||required|5|
|cache / cache_size|Integer|required||required|500000|
|cache / basket_basedir|String|required||required|/expdsk|
|cache / options|Hash|required||required|{}|
|cache / basket_keyconverter / Dec40Seq|Hash|required||required|"Dec40Seq"=>"0-65535"|
|cache / basket_keyconverter / Hex64Seq|Hash|required||required|"Hex64Seq"=>""|

h2. Notices
Test environment to run 'rake spec' requires the following settings.

h4. Network settings
An IP address of test machine must be 192.168.1.x.
A network interface device 'eth0' must exist.

h4. FireWall Settings
The firewall should not block multicast UDP packets which will be sent from a mock of client 
and transfered by a mock of Gateway and received by a mock of Peer. 
Every mock running on the test machine is virtually realized by the rspec code.
A range of port numbers used by the rspec code is 30108 to 30159.

h4. The Number of CPU Cores
Due to some problems on multithreading programming in the rspec codes of this version
 - not in the production codes - a test machine with one-core CPU might find instability of 
test results. In contrast, a test machine with four-core CPU could not observe such  problems.

