h1. castoro-gateway-kyotocabinet

h2. Install

refer how to install kyotocabinet and gem on centos 5.x

<pre>
gem install castoro-gateway-kyotocabinet-X.X.X.gem
</pre>

h2. gateway.conf Configuration example

<pre>
default:
  require: ["castoro-gateway-kyotocabinet"]
  cache:
    class: KyotoCabinet
    cache_size: 500000
    options:
      watchdog_limit: 15
</pre>

h3. configuration details

h4. cache/class

The class name of an alternative cache class
ex.) It's "KyotoCabinet" in the case of "Castoro::Cache::KyotoCabinet"

h4. cache/cache_size

Cache size (bytes)

h4. cache/options/watchdog_limit

Timeout second for watchdog.

h2. how to install kyotocabinet and gem on centos 5.x

refer http://fallabs.com/kyotocabinet/spex.html#installation

h3. check gcc version

required gcc 4.2 or later
install gcc44 gcc44-c++

<pre>
$ gcc --version
gcc (GCC) 4.1.2 20080704 (Red Hat 4.1.2-50)
Copyright (C) 2006 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
$ sudo yum install gcc44 gcc44-c++
</pre>

h3. install kyotocabinet

refer http://fallabs.com/kyotocabinet/pkg/ for newer version.
set environment variable CC and CXX

<pre>
$ wget http://fallabs.com/kyotocabinet/pkg/kyotocabinet-1.2.71.tar.gz
$ tar zvxf kyotocabinet-1.2.71.tar.gz
$ cd kyotocabinet-1.2.71
$ CC=gcc44 CXX=g++44 ./configure && make && sudo make install
</pre>

h3. ldconfig

<pre>
$ sudo sh -c "echo /usr/local/lib > /etc/ld.so.conf.d/local.conf"
$ sudo /sbin/ldconfig
</pre>

h3. install gem

<pre>
$ sudo CC=gcc44 CXX=g++44 gem install castoro-gateway-kyotocabinet-X.X.X.gem
</pre>

